leader of the very powerful, very
strong country, China.
>> Well, I have a great relationship with
President Xi.
>> We're doing very well with China. I have
a great relationship with President Xi,
as you obviously know. Uh we're doing
really well. We're making a lot of money
with China.
>> our relationship with China is very good
right now. And I'm going to go see
President Xi in 2 weeks. I look forward
to that, but I'll say I'm leaving.
>> We have friendly We have very friendly
competition.
>> We haven't been challenged by China.
They don't challenge us.
>> We're going to have a meeting with
President Xi. It's going to be, I think,
quite amazing.
>> President Trump's Beijing summit with Xi
Jinping is just over an hour away after
months of anticipation. He's been
touting their warm relationship. Will it
be enough to seal a fresh deal on trade
or even securing China's help in
reopening the Strait of Hormuz?
You're watching the China Show. We're
counting down to the market opens in
Greater China. I'm Yvonne Man with David
>> our team is standing by in Beijing to
bring you all the breaking news live,
plus context and analysis as the two
leaders chart the future of the world's
most critical bilateral relationship.
>> You're watching our special coverage of
President Trump's summit with Chinese
leader Xi Jinping. Over the next day,
the world's focus shifts, at least
briefly, from the Middle East to China.
Delayed by the Iran war, the summit will
give policy makers and investors a read
on the fragile US-China trade truce and
where ties between the world's two
largest economies go from here.
>> Standing by for us outside the Forbidden
City is our chief North Asia
correspondent, Stephen Engle. Also in
Beijing for us. He's our China
correspondent, Min-Min Low, in Hong Kong
in our studios with us to cover the
market impact of what we're seeing
across risk assets today. Our M Live
executive editor, Mark Cudmore. Before
we get to the team and on the details, a
quick glance at markets and market
action right now where it is
largely a day to take on more risk as
you can see coming up on your screens.
A50 futures are coming online in
Singapore half of 1% to the upside.
Taiwan is opening higher about 1.7% to
the upside. We're also looking at, of
course, the Kospi index and what a week
it's been.
And we are entering, of course, the
Kospi index about an hour into the
session there. And of course, Nikkei 225
also about 7/10 of 1% to the upside.
It's worth pointing out, of course, we
are looking at some tailwinds, feeling
the tailwinds coming through out of the
US session. And that is despite, of
course, the hot PPI. And you have, of
course, the 5% handle on the 30-year
yield. A glance at where we are as far
as the macro indicators are concerned.
US futures, the 30, the dollar index,
and where you are with Brent prices as
well. It's also worth pointing out we
are also looking at earnings today.
Massive move up in China proxies
overnight. There we go. Golden Dragon up
4%. Crane shares, the KWEB ETF was up
5%. Double and triple in terms of the
volumes coming through there. And
Alibaba is set to rally here today. And
of course, worth pointing out as well
related to the
the geopolitical story we're tracking in
Beijing today. Of course, the AI plays
in China had a massive afternoon
session. We were up 40% at the close. A
lot to watch out for today here.
>> Yeah, you could say Jensen Huang on Air
Force One heading to Beijing or arriving
with Beijing with President Trump lifted
the whole entire AI ecosystem in China
as well. With speculation that maybe we
could be seeing some loosen curves when
it comes to, of course, these tech
exports. But yes, let's get to, of
course, what's on the agenda. We're just
over an hour away from that Trump-Xi
meeting. Outside the Forbidden City is
our Chief North Asia correspondent,
Stephen Engle, also in Beijing, our
China correspondent, Min-Min Low. Steve,
let's start with you. What's in store
today?
>> So much is in store in a very short
amount of time. Obviously, he's going to
only really have about 36 hours uh
between now and uh mid-afternoon when he
uh gets back on Air Force One and heads
back to the United States. There's all
those geopolitical issues we can talk
about. Iran all we want and what Donald
Trump might want to be pressing uh Xi
Jinping to get commitments from uh China
to do more uh to wield its influence on
Iran. There was a New York Times uh
story that came out overnight as well
that US uh officials um intelligence
officials have indicated they have
evidence that perhaps uh Chinese
entities are selling uh weapons to
Tehran through third-party countries. Uh
that that opens up a whole 'nother point
of contention, no doubt. And again,
we've we've heard from uh US officials
about their concern uh that China
continues to buy uh the bulk of Iranian
exports even though, of course, the
Strait of Hormuz is uh essentially
closed. There's lots of avenues that the
United States and Donald Trump perhaps
will bring up in what he hopes to have a
long talk with Xi Jinping about the war
in Iran. But really right now and the
markets have been a proxy for the
interest in the commercial side of this.
Uh Dan Ives of Wedbush uh writing to
clients essentially saying the
composition of this business delegation
coming along with Donald Trump including
uh Jensen Huang of Nvidia sort of
getting into a jump seat on uh Air Force
One in Alaska and coming at the last
minute here to China arriving last night
indicates that the AI trade is perhaps
up for negotiation here. And are the not
only the H20 chips, but the H200. There
could be an indication uh that the White
House has gotten that China would be
willing because keep in mind, Trump has
approved uh you know, limited export
licenses to sell those Nvidia
accelerators, AI accelerators to China,
but it's China that is kind of held
back. They want to build out their own
indigenous innovation, their own chip
infrastructure, as well as their large
language models using their own
indigenous innovation. So, it's
fascinating. And again, Dan Ives was
talking about, you know, when you have
the key architect of the AI stack,
essentially, Jensen Huang, joining the
president on a trip to China on
essentially a trade mission  uh,
state visit, it it it raises the stakes
of this uh, next 36 hours. So, we're
going to be watching that extremely
closely among all the other potential
deals, whether it's a Boeing
long-awaited Boeing aircraft deal uh,
with Kelly Ortberg, the CEO of Boeing
here. Uh, you have Steve Schwarzman
here, Jane Fraser of Citigroup. You
have, of course, Tim Cook. You have Elon
Musk. He was on board Air Force One, as
well. Usually, he'd be the top of the
list of the characters that we'd be
talking about. Elon Musk has been trying
to get final approval of full
self-driving here. He wants robo-taxis
in China. Hasn't gotten the final hurdle
over the final hurdle yet. So, he will
obviously uh, be trying to see what can
be what can come on the commercial side
in uh, this repairing of China-US
relations after what was a a brutal
tariff battle, tit-for-tat, upwards of
145%
tariffs from the United States on China
last year. And then China's retaliation
and the strengthening of their lever
with rare earths.
>> Yeah, we are expecting the two leaders
uh, to meet in about an hour from now.
Min-Min, I'll bring you in here. Looking
across Chinese and state media, how is
this being covered and framed this
morning?
>> Overwhelming coverage of the Trump-Xi
summit. I'll show you today's China
Daily, the front page, a full spread
here talking about a red carpet welcome
for Trump in Beijing. And it goes on and
on. The next page is all about um, this
friendship bouncing along between the US
and China hawking back to that ping pong
diplomacy. And you have a third page
about US business leaders expressing
confidence in the Chinese market.
There's just a lot of coverage across
multiple different state media and one
line I keep seeing again and again is
this emphasis that head of state
diplomacy is absolutely irreplaceable.
It can't be overemphasized how China
attaches importance to Trump's trip. And
I was just watching some of those
visuals of the moment when President
Trump landed yesterday, right? With huge
fanfare, the red carpet. You have
hundreds of youth waving the American
and the Chinese flag and chanting,
"Welcome, welcome, a very warm welcome."
And it really reminds me and it gives me
the sense of deja vu, you know, back in
2017 when President Trump first came and
he received a very warm welcome. It was
a first state visit that was designated
state visit plus.
And there was almost this honeymoon
period. And after which I think China
was caught a little bit by surprise by
the swiftness and the aggressiveness of
Trump's first trade war. And you got to
wonder whether this time we would see a
repeat of that, right? Where we have
both sides really touting that personal
rapport, that personal friendship
between the two leaders. But when the
summit is done and dusted and when
President Trump leaves, will he then
turn around and bow to pressure from US
legislators to, you know, come up with
very unfriendly policies for China,
whether it's a moving that record arm
sales to Taiwan or whether it's tech
curbs on China or a re-escalation of
those tariffs as well.
>> Yeah, it's certainly something we'll
watch in terms of the welcome ceremony,
this this pomp and circumstance that I'm
I'm guessing China's is really preparing
for as well later today. Steve, I'll
bring you back in. We we've been talking
about this for weeks now about the
position that Xi Jinping is in entering
to these talks, that perhaps he is
having a bit more leverage given what we
heard with rare earths and what they've
done last year with that.
What would look like a win for China in
this summit?
>> Well, I'm I'm sure that Taiwan is going
to be something that Xi Jinping wants to
talk to Donald Trump. Whether Taiwan and
the arms sales package that is pending
in DC is on the menu for you know,
as a as a prize that Washington could
potentially
give to China by scaling back that arms
package or giving any indication that
the United States in the Trump
administration is going to change
America's stance towards Taiwan
would be a big victory for Xi Jinping if
it's obviously a change to their liking.
So, they are watching that very closely.
But I just wanted to pick up as well on
some of the points that Minmin was
making about the arrival ceremony and
about the confidence level that China
has a hosting this
second state visit of Donald Trump. In
2017, Minmin mentioned that it was Yang
Jiechi who welcomed Donald Trump. He's
on the Politburo, he was the top
diplomat. You know, China likes to
really use the protocol and these kind
of ceremonies as signals of the level of
importance. This time it was Han Zheng.
He's a vice president, mostly ceremonial
role. He went to King Charles'
coronation. He went to the Trump
inauguration second term.
He's not as quite high up and he's no
longer in the Politburo Standing
Committee. So, maybe I don't want to
read too much into it, but we have to.
That's our job. It might be just a
little notch below Yang Jiechi and
definitely a few notches below what
President Obama in 2009 saw when Xi
Jinping himself, who was then vice
president I have to say, he was not the
president yet, but he was the anointed
heir apparent. He went to the airport
and visited Barack Obama. But anyway,
the The two takeaways according to Manny
Menendez who has been doing business
here in China for 47 years, started with
joint ventures. He He basically arranged
uh the first joint venture following the
establishment of US-China relations in
1979. The first big one of major Fortune
100 companies joint venture down in
Guangzhou between US and Chinese
entities. And he says the two most
important things, and he's seen the ups
and downs of this relationship over the
last 47 years. He says the two most
important things are continual top-level
dialogue, not just 36 hours, but beyond
this, and also guidelines for businesses
on what are the parameters. Where can we
invest that will not run the foul of
national security concerns on either
side. Here's Manny Menendez.
>> With all that's going on in the world
today, stability by the number one and
number two economy of the world is is I
can't think of something more paramount.
Uh
figuring out how to agree to disagree
with respect, and finding common ground,
I think needs to be worked on
continuously, not in just 36 hours, but
continuously.
I'm really a interested in is really
having a better definition of national
security. What What constitutes,
especially from I'm talking from a
business standpoint. Where's that line
drawn on national security when it comes
to products and services?
Because once the line is drawn, then the
business community can then I really
believe increase business between both
countries.
>> And I think Manny makes a very big
point, and it it really dovetails nicely
with what Jamieson Greer, the US trade
representative, has been talking about
in that how they are discussing the
possibility of a framework agreement
like a board of trade, board of
investment. And then there's that
Reuters story today as well that the two
sides are potentially looking at
identifying each side identifying about
$30 worth of particular products that
could have tariffs reduced as long as
they are not deemed national security
threats to either country. So again,
putting in frameworks and guardrails
essentially to separate those industries
and those products that are national
security at the high of national
security
concerns. And then let commerce continue
in other areas less sensitive.
>> Yeah, Steve. It seems like for
businesses it's really about really
getting that clarity about where the red
lines are in order to encourage
businesses to pour in money to bring up
push up mutual investment again. And you
talked about Han Zheng there receiving
President Trump, right? And in in a
world where a lot of the communication
happens behind closed doors, all we can
do is really read into the tea leaves
and the little sort of symbolism that is
on display here on President Trump's
trip. And you were talking about the
leverage as the two sides enter into
this summit, right? And one expert was
putting it very nicely and saying that
the US in a way is fighting a war
without winning, but China is winning
without fighting because you have the
Iran war happening in the background.
You have Marco Rubio saying they're
hoping to convince China to play a
bigger role to get Iran to back off. And
meanwhile, China is sort of sitting back
and just watching the US erode the
American leadership in the eyes of the
world and getting the side benefit of
that. And again, when I was speaking to
people in China, they were saying that
you you really
they can't really trust what Trump says.
One person saying that he's a wolf in
sheep's skin. And it's hard to trust
what he says and what they can get out
of this particular summit. And I think
like you said, it's really not about
getting any grand bargain. It's about
how the two sides can maintain the
dialogue and maintain equilibrium,
perhaps buy some time, 2 to 3 years of
stability for both sides to plug any gap
in their economies, right? For the US,
it would be rare earths. For China, it
would be the closing the tech gap with
the United States.
>> Tim, fantastic context there as we head
into, of course, a fairly consequential
day uh in Beijing today. Our chief North
Asia correspondent there, Stephen Engle,
and Min Min Lo also there uh in Beijing.
In case you're wondering what the agenda
looks like, what we know so far over the
next let's call it
uh a couple of hours or so. So, in the
next let's call it 90 minutes, the
arrival is set at a Great Hall of the
People. Donald Trump, of course, we'll
be following the motorcade going into
that. Then, of course, in about an hour
from now, of course, that meeting is
expected to start and going into tonight
the state banquet, of course, at the
Great Hall uh of the people. Right, a
couple of other things to note as well
here. So, I think we're hearing from
Scott Bessent posting on X. This is
following, of course, his conversation
with
uh with with with
in South Korea talking about how the
economic and trade relationship they
discussed critical minerals there uh
with his South Korean counterparts. I
think those two things could be on the
table as we go into today.
>> Yes, I mean, the the meeting with Holy
Fong was supposed to be kind of ironing
out and laying the pathway for these
talks, right? There was going to be some
expectation of this board of trade that
there the two sides wanted to kind of
implement here on how to better look at,
you know, the tariffs discussions moving
forward. Um so, it looks like things
were okay. I mean, he talked about
critical minerals with South Korea's
Prime Minister. So, certainly uh it
seems like it was pretty fruitful trip
for Scott Bessent. On the flip side,
we're hearing that Fox News uh did
interview with the Secretary of State
Marco Rubio uh who had some pretty
hawkish commentary uh but to no
surprise. Stability in the Pacific and
China is China in China's best interest.
They cannot depend on China for a 100%
of everything that we need. So, once
again, talking a little bit more about,
you know, reducing that reliance uh with
China. Trade, Iran among topics to be
discussed with China uh later on today.
>> Yeah, uh airing the pre-recorded
interview, of course, there, Marco
Rubio, right? Lots more coming up here
on the upcoming summit. We'll be
speaking in the next hour with
University of San Francisco's uh Kurt
Campbell. Of course, he was previously
in Shanghai. We'll have more on that
previous hat, of course, and his current
hat. And Alta Bani Glazer will be
joining us, of course, out of the German
Marshall Fund uh on most things on the
table today. Uh as we count down to the
open of markets, have a look at where we
are on futures. It's about 12 minutes
away from the cash market open here in
Hong Kong, up in Shanghai, and in
between in Shenzhen. Here's a live look
at Beijing. Big day today. This is the
China show. Good morning.
Right, welcome back, you guys. In fact,
are almost to the second just in time as
we look at uh the pre-markets. In fact,
we should be getting those prices as we
speak. Now, Alibaba was up 8% overnight.
Tencent was up five in the US. We're up
by 8% here in Hong Kong in the early
goings. Uh Mark Cudmore is with us here,
our uh Bloomberg Markets Live executive
editor, of course, here with us to talk
us through this Chinese tech rally. Uh
is it happening amidst what's going on,
because of what's going on in Beijing,
or despite that?
>> Uh I think, first of all, is it's
it's been a bit disappointing in a
longer-term framework
>> Yeah.
>> compared to like some of the US names.
Uh but I think there's, you know, it's
it's sustainable. And I think it's
actually like where the kind of AI rally
has got legs as it kind of broadens out.
Um I think, obviously, at the earnings
yesterday, I think people were
uh at a top-down level maybe a little
bit disappointed, but I think uh you
know, our favorite markets producer,
Anthony Stevens, has made a good case
that, you know, the the the commitment
to the AI theme uh is probably quite
bullish, and people will probably like
that. So, I actually think that, you
know, the the the Hong Kong I call it
more the Hong Kong tech rally cuz I
think a lot of people play it through
the Hong Kong trades, but it's the China
greater China tech rally is is very
different from the US, but it's the more
sustainable one and it's the one that
has better valuations and it's this
particular one since you've got such
extreme valuations in the US side. It's
the one that's going to appeal people
for the kind of long-term investing. So,
I think it's it's it's sustainable.
>> Let's talk about today just for the sake
of it because, you know, S&P's at
records for probably about, you know,
Shenzhen was at a record. I mean,
there's just so much still of optimism
around this whole AI trade. Is anything
today in Beijing in this meeting that
could change that?
>> Absolutely. I actually think today's got
very large tail risks. It's not my base
case. So, my base case is that this is
we we get through this and we kind of
move on from it next week. We get the
usual platitudes. We get a few
commitments to buy some stuff, a few
trade deals. We get very excited. Um but
the reason we're paying attention is
valid because
you know what? As long as
Donald Trump's on the scene and Donald
Trump's on the scene with China, a lot
of anything could happen. And so, the
tail risks are real. They're They're
They They are tail risks rather than
base case, but they're non-negligible.
So, I think we've got to pay close
attention to this, but my assumption is
that we'll kind of get through it.
There'll be some positive headlines and
we'll probably rally out of it. My worry
is that I think I you know, we're saying
this earlier in the week is that I
actually think, you know, we rally into
this with involved fashion. We rally
afterwards in relief if we don't get
those tail risks. And then after that,
we're going to go, "Okay, now back to
What What is it? Oh, the Iran conflict."
Oh, wait.
>> We don't have a resolution on that yet.
>> Yeah. And that's when we actually start
maybe trading a bit more negatively
again.
>> What tail risks are top of mind?
>> I mean, it's anything. Like does
>> It's anything but what's happening in
Beijing.
>> it's it does. So, I mean,
I need to emphasize this is speculative,
right? Because we don't know, but like
there's anything from like
does does Trump say something on Taiwan
because he wants to get some support on
Iran? Do you know, make some cuz I just
you know, or does or does the The that
US stock markets are at record highs
means we get that, you know, there's the
idea of the Fed put. There's also the
Trump call, so that when stock markets
are at record highs, Trump goes more
aggressive on some of his hardline
issues. So, with stock markets at record
high, maybe that's when he goes, "You
know what? I'm going to like get a win
on China, cuz that's what I need from a
domestic press, cuz the markets are
supporting me right now." So, maybe
that's when he goes, you know, 100%
tariffs on everything again. We get
those kind of crazy headlines. So, I I
need to emphasize I don't expect any of
these things. It's not the base case.
The point is is that
when Donald Trump goes on these visits,
you know, terrorist attacks are
possible. Yeah, exactly. So, I I I
really want to emphasize this is not the
expectation. This is speculation, but
this is why we're on tenterhooks.
>> What else is your team on tenterhooks on
today? What are you guys working on?
>> I think I think the the the the the the
bigger picture is that AI dominates
everything else. And and we generally
think, with a bit of debate within the
team, but I I guess I'll give my view. I
get to have that now, so I'm
>> Yes, you have the mic.
>> Yeah, yeah, exactly. Uh you know, I
think like the the the capex AI AI capex
bubble has a long way to run still in
the state of inflation stage. And I
think that dominates everything. But, I
think the, you know, we we the the the
Strait of Hormuz situation is not gone
away. And, you know, the longer that
goes on, at some point we're going to
have to confront the issue that I think
that we're we're impressed by the
strategic petroleum reserve releases in
the US are going much faster than
expected. There's not the the big
physical problem we expected so soon,
but it's not getting resolved just
because it hasn't really hit yet. Uh and
Strait of Hormuz was clearly overhyped
in terms of its impact, in terms of the
blockage. Doesn't mean that it has no
impact. And if there's no solution
there, this is going to become a really,
really big problem. We saw PPI
yesterday. We saw CPI property. Like,
the US has a has a serious inflation
problem. I think the narrative in US
yields is changing. I think that means
that the narrative in the dollar might
be changing. Um so, all these dynamics
matter. And so, you've got to think on
the Strait of Hormuz, either there's no
resolution, or resolution comes through
material escalation. So, I actually
think it'll move quite back into focus
in a negative focus. And as you know,
I'm very, very bullish on the AI capex
bubble still long term, but I'm quite
worried for the next month of trading
because of the straight up moves.
>> Mark, fantastic. Thank you so much. Mark
Cudmore there of course with the context
on everything that's taking place. There
we go. Look at the live pictures there
out of the Great Hall of the People.
I almost feel like they're cheering for
us and some of the commentary coming
through out of Mark there in the bullet
comments. Yes, we'll take you straight
back of course there to Beijing where in
about over 30 minutes from now we are
expecting of course the the US president
to arrive and of course the meeting with
the Chinese President Xi Jinping.
>> You're watching the China Show. We got
the open coming up next and certainly
watching of course what happens with
these tech plays here today. We take a
look at what it comes to Tencent,
Alibaba intraday. We're taking already
the pre-market is up substantially for
Alibaba. We're up some 8%. It's
interesting with those earnings too,
Dave, right? The headline numbers were
not so great when you talk about, you
know, when it came to Baba, 3% revenue
growth for the top line wasn't that good
but under the hood when you talk about
the expecting to triple in terms of
their AI revenue by the end of this
year. I think that was enough for
investors to say, "Look, maybe things
are going to pay off." But, you know,
it's
>> going to start bearing fruits soon.
>> Yeah, and you know, we might not have to
wait that long in terms of Alibaba to
really play out. And I think between the
two stocks, which is interesting too
because these two actually have been
brought up by most in the sell-side as
perhaps the best ways longer term bets
on the AI play because of just the just
the sheer coverage in terms of their
respective businesses there and you
know, the potential that AI brings if
you're able to then
sort of apply the technology onto their
businesses. It does seem the market is
picking Alibaba today more than it is
Tencent and of course coming up in about
few minutes from now. CLSA will be
joining us to talk us through both and
whether or not both make sense, does one
make sense over the other. So, that's
really a conversation we'll be having of
course as we go into the opening bell of
today. Apart from that, couple of other
things, CSI 300 we are nearing the 5,000
level for the first time in four years.
The China X index at the close finally
topped the 2015 highs.
Tailwinds are behind us going into the
open today. The open is next. This is
the China show.
Welcome back. We have special coverage,
of course, here on the China show today.
Live pictures coming through out of
Beijing, where we are expecting the
ceremony, the US president to arrive
there at the Great Hall of the People in
about half an hour from now. Of course,
we'll keep on top, of course, of all of
that as we go into the open today. Lots
on deck as far as conversations goes,
and of course, as market conversations
go, there is an overlap between those
two.
>> Yeah, I mean, you can say really the AI
ecosystem is doing very well when it
comes to what you saw in the US, what
you saw in China just yesterday's show.
I think Jensen Huang in China is also uh
really lifted all boats, it seems like,
when it comes to the chip side of
things. And really, you know, put AI
back in the agenda here today as a
spotlight of these talks. It certainly
adds to a lot of interesting sort of
developments that could happen in the
next 36 hours. It's a very tight sort of
time frame for President Trump. But yes,
we as we talked about, the welcome
ceremony is about half an hour's time.
Then they're going to have their
bilateral summit, and then there's going
to be a state dinner later on tonight as
well, followed tomorrow. They're going
to have more bilaterals in terms of a
tea and lunch. That's according to the
White House in the schedule for the next
36 hours or so. So, there you go. It's
going to be pretty jam-packed. And in
terms of markets, though, we're we're
entering into the summit here on very
positive tones. Take a look at the CSI
300. There you go. Back above that 5,000
level, as Dave mentioned, that is a
5-year high. China X, we're seeing
extending those rallies there. We're up
another 1%, and now reaching a a record
high for that benchmark. So, certainly,
it is once again the AI plays, the
Jihu's, the Minimax's, Cambricon Tech.
There you go. CATL is doing very well.
We're up some 3% there in Shenzhen. And
the chip space continues to outperform
today. Cavium is up 1 and 1/4 right now.
Shanghai crude is slightly to the
downside here. So, you know, it really
have moved away from the whole Iran
situation. The focus now is really what
is happening here in this part of the
world in the Chinese capital. But all
signs point to maybe we could see some
more stability between the US and China
relationship. And we'll see if that
continues when it comes to risk
sentiment here today. You take a look at
how we're seeing some of the largest
movers yesterday on the China X, right?
So, it was the whole AI supply chain,
whether it's the optical, you know,
stocks, the server stocks, the like. We
talked about JerryPoo in Hong Kong was
up in 30-something percent in the late
part of the session there. Really it was
kind of a delayed reaction possibly to
this whole Jensen Huang news. The
last-minute addition on Air Force One as
he heads to Beijing. But certainly, you
know, we are seeing when it comes to
Shenzhen side of things, it continues to
be hot there. Aptolink technology up 2%.
Suzhou Tech Optical also up some 5%. In
terms of Hong Kong, this is what we're
looking at. We're up 1 and 1/2% to the
upside here today. The key thing to
watch is Alibaba, Tencent. There you go.
7 to 8% gains for Baba here right now.
It really followed what we saw when it
came to the ADRs. Tencent was also up.
But Alibaba maybe stood out a little bit
more just given some of the numbers that
the CEO Eddie Wu gave in that earnings
call here talking about, you know,
they're about to bear fruit in terms of
the whole AI monetization story despite
the fact it was the first operating loss
since early COVID times. And despite the
fact that revenue growth was at just a
mere 3%, right? So, we we really largely
shrugged off the the top line sort of
numbers there. And really looking at
what's in store by the end of the year
here when they're talking about what
they're triple in terms of their revenue
here
in terms of AI. So, certainly that's the
the the the still the tailwinds that
we're seeing across the the the Tech
space here. And once again, we're seeing
that that catch-up story being played
out. But, there you go. You're still
seeing though, when it comes to the pure
plays, Geely Pool, Minimax are doing
quite well in Hong Kong today. Minimax,
as well as Geely Pool, both up some 2%.
5240 for HS Tech here right now. I just
want to take a look at what's going on
with New World. So, there has been some
reports about Hong Kong Airport
Authority taking over 11 Skies retail
from the property developer.
There was also our scoop that Blackstone
has also dropped out of that $4 billion
deal over control clashes. They've come
up with a statement. So, they're saying
no agreement has been reached with any
potential investor right now.
They wanted to seek some clarification
there. The 11 Skies project discussions
are ongoing. There has been no pact
that's been reached with the Airport
Authority in Hong Kong. They will manage
the financing arrangement with lenders
and not aware of any deadline for a
reset of those financing terms. So,
trying a bit more clarity here from the
developer itself. The stock though is
still down some 3% Dave.
>> Okay. Let's pivot away from the markets
very briefly. We will revisit it, I
promise you, in a couple of minutes
here, of course, given the rally we're
seeing. Baba's up eight, Baidu's up
seven, Tencent's up 4%. The other big
story, of course, is what's happening in
Beijing. In about 30 minutes from now,
we are expecting the US president to
meet the Chinese president, of course,
there at the Great Hall of the People.
In fact, standing by for us there,
our Bloomberg Surveillance co-anchor is
with us right now. She's made the trip.
She's in this part of the world. Anne
Marie, good morning. Nice to see you,
sir. So, tell us what
How is this being covered? What's top of
mind for you as we as we count down to
this historic meeting today?
>> Good morning, David. Yeah, the eyes of
the world are really on Beijing as the
leaders of the two biggest economies are
going to be meeting here just under 30
minutes time. We will have President Xi
Jinping greeting President Trump right
behind me here at the Great Hall of the
People. That's the entrance and of
course to the other side is Tiananmen
Square and across the street is the
Forbidden City. So really the heart of
Beijing when it comes to the political
power apparatus in China. Top of mind
for me really here is what is the
discussion going to look like? You know
better than anyone else that how the
Chinese like to really coordinate these
meetings is to make sure that every
single deliverable is done months in
advance and normally this would just be
ceremonial. But already this has been
quite an unpredictable trip with the
president picking up Nvidia CEO Jensen
Huang yesterday on the refueling stop in
Alaska. So I'm really interested to see
if there's any sort of unpredictable
moments that come out of this meeting.
Of course we're going to be looking at
the three T's, trade when it comes to
the tit-for-tat between these two
countries, the détente had when it comes
to export controls, rare earth minerals,
and their trade war that they have until
October. And of course you had Secretary
Bessette with He Lifeng yesterday in
Seoul in the lead-up to this meeting
today. And then of course the future of
technology. Are they able to establish
what some officials told us before their
trip, an AI channel? You have the likes
of Elon Musk here, Meta's Dina Powell,
and of course Jensen Huang. And then
finally, the national security space
which is going to be the most tense
aspect of this meeting. The Iran war of
course clouds this trip. This trip was
delayed because of the United States
dealing with the conflict in Iran. China
is of course the biggest purchaser of
Iranian crude. China recently told some
of these firms that they could ignore US
sanctions when it comes to Iran. And
then of course the big pressure point
for Xi Jinping to exert on the United
States is going to be Taiwan. Ahead of
this trip the president said he would
discuss the arms sale that's in the
docket when it comes to Taiwan. And this
is going to be something that a lot of
China hawks in Washington DC will be
paying close attention to.
>> Anne-Marie, I'm interested to to know
because leading up to this summit, the
narrative on the ground there is that
Trump needs this meeting more than she
needs it here. That the Chinese
president is in a more of an emboldened
sort of position given what we heard and
what we saw last year with rare earths
and the like. The US seems to be still
distracted by this war in the Middle
East. What does Trump want to achieve in
this? I know we talk about beef, we talk
about soybeans, we talk about Boeing.
That seems to be low-hanging fruit. But
what would constitute a win for the US?
>> Well, absolutely. I think that's a good
point. These massive purchasing
agreements, especially going into the
midterm elections, could be really
paramount for the president to bring
home as wins. You know, soybeans, the
Cargill CEO will be here, the Boeing CEO
will be here. There's obviously a lot of
anticipation of a massive jet deal. I do
think China comes into this meeting in a
more assertive stance given the fact
that they have used when it comes to the
rare earths and their chokehold on rare
earths as a real leverage point with the
United States as a negotiating
table. But I think it would be naive to
think that China also does not need the
United States. Of course, China is still
trying to get their hands on the most
high-powered advanced technological
semiconductors, which is why it's very
interesting that Jensen Huang with a
last-minute ad. Remember, China does not
have access to Blackwell.
Nvidia is going to be coming out the
very Reuben later this year. Right now,
this administration actually made a
U-turn in January to allow the H200
chips to come into China. But so far,
according to Commerce Secretary Howard
Lutnick last month testifying in the
Senate, we've learned that China has not
bought a single one yet. So, I think it
would be naive to say that both these
countries don't need each other in some
aspect, especially China, of course,
when it comes to trade. And I was
looking at the numbers. 1980,
China accounted for 1% of the US trade.
Now, it's more like 16%. So, I think
both these companies understand that
they need each other, and I think right
now this is really just about managing
that competition going forward.
>> Anne Marie, fantastic. Anne Marie Ho
during there in Beijing for us right
outside the Great Hall of the People. We
will be
revisiting, of course, our coverage
there on the ground. Our whole team is
in Beijing, of course, to cover the
various aspects through this. We just
touched on trade just now and chips. And
recently, I guess you had a look at some
of the big AI plays in Hong Kong into
the close yesterday. Massive rally
40% on the back of perhaps news that a
Jensen Huang was joining.
And of course, there's the earnings
overlay here with Alibaba rallying the
most Let's call it 7-8 months in
extremely heavy volumes in the early
nine you know, first nine minutes of
trade here in Hong Kong. Eleanor Long is
with us here, head of Asia Telco and
internet research at CLSA to help us
understand the earnings. Very nice to
see you. Good morning.
>> Thank you.
>> I think my first question is comparing
the two, market seems to be happier with
Alibaba than it is with Tencent.
Relatively, of course.
>> From for much of this year, right? Yeah.
>> Yes,
correct. We are entering a very exciting
moment of the AI eras that moving away
from model training and to actual
application. And 2P monetization is a
lot easier compared to C. That's why
what get people excited is the AI cloud,
which Baba is better positioned for the
AI cloud compared to Tencent. So, I
think last quarter last night result on
Alibaba, the
management given a very bullish guidance
on their cloud growth. So, the external
cloud revenue already accelerated to 40%
year-on-year growth in the last quarter.
They expect that will further accelerate
with noticeable margin expansion. They
are so bullish is because they think
that AI revenue is going to be able to
grow at a triple digit and contribute
more than 50% of the cloud revenue in
one year's time. That is driven by MAAS,
model as a service, which ramping up
very quickly in China, which including a
gentle application such as coding,
productivity, generative video tools for
the enterprises, and they're willing to
pay, and they have a chance to raise
prices now because we are not just model
training, which is a commoditized
service, but now we are able to
differentiate in capability, or we're
able to raise prices there. Um so, that
is driving that cloud growth, and the
company expect to achieve 100 billion
USD revenue with 20% margin in 5 years'
time.
>> Yeah, run us through some of those
numbers, right? I was looking through
that. So, they said 10 billion RMB in
terms of AI
intelligence services revenue, right?
So, that's by June. 30 billion by by the
end of the year. Are those tall orders,
you think? Or do you think they'll be
easily easily they can surpass these
numbers?
>> I think they can surpass the numbers
because the demand in China is very
high. The bottom line actually is the
chip supplies. Right now is that the
supply is uh demand is far greater
compared to surprise. As you know that
China has a chip constraint uh because
we cannot buy a lot of the Nvidia chip,
but luckily it's starting this year the
domestic chip supplies start picking up.
So, we expect the token in China is
going to up four times this year in
China, but over 70% inference chip
demand, and China is going to go 100% uh
self-sufficient in domestic inference
chip. So, that will help to support the
growth. Um and you're also seeing that
China doesn't really have a SaaS
industry in the past, meaning that when
these agent applications come through,
people jump onto it. Um so, even open
crowd, a good example is that open crowd
is started in the US, but China is more
enthusiastic about open crowd work, but
they from Tencent and crowd from Baba,
and we think that the agent adoption in
China could be a lot faster and a lot
cheaper in China as well.
>> Just to ask you on thinning margins, do
I have to lose a minute of sleep over
thinning margins or is that
not relevant at this point in time when
it comes to the growth story of Alibaba?
>> Right. I think what pressure margin is
on two from one is on the e-commerce
side and they're investing a lot on
quick commerce and the other one is AI
and they're also investing a lot on AI.
I'm not too worried about the AI
investment because if they can achieve
100 billion USD cloud revenue in 5
years, this year if they spend 30
billion USD in CapEx, it's I think it's
worth it if you can get into that
revenue. So I think the monetization
trend right now is pretty obvious. I
think return is going to be pretty good
if you can get 20% margins there. And on
the e-commerce side, the quick commerce
competition has become more gradually
more rationalized. So they see the quick
commerce losses going to half this year.
So it's moving in the right trend and
all other losses, meaning the user
acquisition for their queen app is also
come down in the coming quarter. So
profitability start start improving in
June quarter.
>> Investor preference still leans
towards the pure plays, right? We we we
talk about what's going on with Jipu,
Minimax. They're they're more low low
cost sort of AI plays right now.
Do you think this is the inflection
point then that maybe Alibaba, Tencent
can maybe start catching up to some of
these names now?
>> Yeah, pure play always runs faster
compared to incumbent because incumbent
has legacy business which will attract
the growth, which is very
understandable. But we still preferred
incumbent because they offer a full
stack AI services. Baba have their T
head chip, have their cloud, have their
model, have their application. So their
cost per million token will always be
lowest in the market. And for these
stand alone model, they have always have
to charge a premium because you don't
have a efficiency efficient
infrastructure, which means that your
model has to be the best in the market,
meaning you cannot be a general model.
You cannot invest in genetic as well as
video at the same time. You just don't
have the capital to do so. So, for these
standalone model, we think they have to
choose a direction. I think a genetic
could be a easier for them, and you have
to focus on that and focus on certain
customer. But Baba is different. They're
going to cover everything from coding,
productivity to video generative, and
they cover the broadest industry, and
that's why they will capture the largest
dollar amount in the cloud services. So,
they are the largest cloud in China with
28% market share, but they also grow the
fastest with 40%. So, you can see how
benefit they come from this AI trend.
>> The next comparable, almost parallel is
is Tencent, of course, but it's
different because it's gaming and and
social media. Is is the AI path of
Tencent as clear as it is with Alibaba,
or are you slightly more
bullish on that because of the legacy
business?
>> Right. So, do you buy Baba is buy for
the cloud, and you buy Tencent for the
AI application. So, Baba is more to see
Baba Tencent is more to Sorry, Baba is
to B, Tencent is more to C. They already
generate AI revenue in game, in
advertising, but to see monetization
like AI chatbot is more difficult to
monetize compared to to B, and that's
why the stock is kind of lagging
compared to Baba. And also, the
year-to-date correction is more of a
multiple contraction because they don't
have a competitive model today. Hunyuan
3.0 is a good start.
It offer good capability at a
competitive price, but it's still a
small model, 256 billion model. They
need a much bigger model like trillion
parameter model with more enhanced
reasoning as well as agenda capability
to support the AI application. They need
to come up with that for a bigger
re-rating in the share price. Uh now we
are waiting for that one.
>> And is it is it your understanding or
expectation that they are working on
something together?
>> working. They totally overhaul the
uh the LM team. They hired somebody away
from Open AI to lead the team right now.
And so they expect that they could have
a parameter a trillion parameter model
in in months.
So that will help them to accelerate
their application creation. But
Tencent's the biggest competitive
advantage is the ecosystem, a billion
people,
millions of mini programs. And that take
that competitor more than 10 years to
build. So that is very difficult to
break for Tencent.
>> All right, Eleanor. Thank you. Eleanor
Leung there, head of Asia Telecom and
Internet Research at CLSA.
We talk about, you know, what's going to
be on tap here in Beijing. You know, we
were talking about, you know, as Eleanor
mentioned, right? The likes of Baba is
going to need Nvidia chips if they need
to continue on with this whole AI
journey. And certainly Jensen Huang
being there has really kind of
made it a little bit more interesting,
right? This meeting. Let's bring back
our chief North Asia correspondent,
Stephen Engle, who is of course on the
ground for us there in Beijing. Steve,
we're just moments away from this
welcome ceremony.
It's interesting to see, you know, the
delegation. And and I think we we talked
about this yesterday about Jensen Huang
being there. You're seeing when it comes
to the markets, it completely lifted AI
and AI-related stocks.
On the just the prospect of him being
where you are.
What could come out of this meeting with
Jensen Huang there?
>> Well, I don't mean to overhype it, but
it's quite extraordinary the list of
names that we talk about on a daily
basis from afar here in Asia. They are
here in Beijing along with President
Trump. Whether it's Jensen Huang, as Dan
Ives of Wedbush says, he's the, you
know, the king essentially the the key
architect of the AI stack being the head
of Nvidia. So absolutely. I think
his presence here and we don't
necessarily know exactly yet what is
going to be negotiated and what
deliverables we're going to get the fact
that he jumped on the jump seat of Air
Force One. Of course, I'm sure he had a
more comfortable seat than that, but he
came to Beijing last night. That has you
know, sent some tongues a wagon about
what could possibly be announced not
necessarily on Blackwell and the most
advanced what's coming down the road
Reuben, but again, the chip sets of the
H200 which the Trump administration has
already approved to export to see to
China
you know, on a on a limited export
license basis, but China has chosen not
to authorize their companies to buy it
yet. That could be in the offing or even
the more downgraded version the H20
which has approval to be sold here, but
again, China is trying to build up its
own indigenous innovation and they have
been trumpeting some of their successes
in their own chip sets and also their
large language models, but again, it
would be a positive as we've seen on the
market. It's positive to the Chinese AI
plays if that could be given the green
light. It's speculative right now, but
the fact that Jensen Huang is here.
Also, Elon Musk is here. He was on Air
Force One. Is he any closer to getting
the full self-driving approval across
the line in China and his ambition for
robot taxis here. He has big interests
and big intentions of going big here in
China. We all know that you know, Tim
Cook has been to China many times. He
was at the China development forum
regular participant there. He has a
massive supply chain through his OEM
partners here in China. So there could
be some announcements on that front.
Clearly, Kelly Ortberg
the CEO of Boeing is here because it's
long anticipated including
you know, David Perdue the US ambassador
to China told me a couple of months ago
in Hong Kong that yes, the the Boeing
deal is definitely well, not definitely
going to happen. It's it's happening,
right? So, it's possibly going to be
announced in the next 36 hours. So,
there are a lot of great opportunities
for American companies. Now, what is
China China has been far less
transparent on the deliverables they
want. So, we'll have to see that. That's
an interesting part to me.
>> Steve, great stuff. Stephen Engle, of
course, is standing by for us there.
We'll continue to stand by for us there
in Beijing. Of course, he's outside the
the Forbidden City. We'll do a few skips
across a couple of blocks away, big big
blocks I should mention there, of
course, in Beijing. Take you straight
now to the Great Hall of the People in
Beijing. Anne Marie Hoardern, of course,
our Bloomberg Surveillance co-anchor is
standing by for you there for us there
and of course, awaiting the arrival of
the US president. Anne Marie, we we
spoke earlier on on some of the key
issues that they'll touch on business
and perhaps potential potential deals
and some sticking points. I want to ask
you about how Iran and also Ukraine and
we got a very good reminder that that's
still going on, of course, you know,
about an hour back with the mayor of
Kiev, I believe, talking about this
missile attack. That those two things
are still happening against against the
backdrop of this meeting. In what ways
do you suspect the US could seek some
assistance from Beijing in as far as
their objectives as far as those two are
concerned?
>> Well, certainly both of these issues
will be brought up at the table and we
even heard that last week when
Ambassador Jameson Greer joined us on
surveillance and talked about any regime
that's basically getting money from
China cuz China China buys the lion's
share of Iran oil will, of course, be a
topic that the president brings up. And
I think officials would tell you from
the United States that this is a
continuation of a conversation
when it comes to Russia and Iran and how
China helps them in terms of dual-use
products when it comes to weapons.
Specifically when it comes to Iran,
that'll be a real cloud on this trip. I
mean, first this trip is only happening
now. It was pushed back because of the
conflict in Iran. On top of that, we
talked about China being the biggest
buyer of crude. They recently told some
their tease teapot firms to basically
snub and ignore US sanctions. On top of
that, the Washington Post has a story
out about an intel assessment from the
United States that China has been using
the Iran war one to sell weapons to
United States Persian Gulf allies and
also to help US allies, especially in
the Asia Pacific that are really in need
and energy starved, to get some of that
crude. You know, China has 1.4 million
barrels of crude in stockpile. For some
context, that's more than the United
States and the eight eight other bigger
crude oil stockpilers in the world. So,
they could help in terms of maybe
bringing down some of those energy
costs. So, I think that's how both of
those conversations are going to play
here. Of course, the other big and most
important tense topic is going to be
Taiwan. The United States, this Trump
administration in December greenlit an
$11 billion arms sale package to Taiwan.
There's a $14 billion arms sales package
that is still in the works and on the
docket. And one of our colleagues was
recently in Taipei, Jenny Leonard, and
spoke to a Taiwanese official who said
they don't want to be on the menu when
it comes to these negotiations that are
about to take place here in Beijing. Of
course, Taiwan is an issue that China is
going to press. Xi Jinping would love
the United States to alter any such
language on how they view Taiwan
sovereignty and would love to slow roll
the next arms package. This has gotten a
lot of attention in Washington D.C. It
is not unprecedented for a US president
to hold off on an arms package just
ahead of a big summit like this. The
question is going to be what happens
when the president returns to
Washington.
>> Fantastic.
Anne Marie there at the Great Hall of
the People, Stephen Engle who just
joined us a few minutes back of course
at the Forbidden City. Let's bring in
Karishma Vaswani our Bloomberg opinion
columnist right now
at the top of the show. Some several key
complexities here Karishma and you know
we used Taiwan and we ended on Taiwan
just now with Anne Marie and how that
perhaps could be used as bait. Just
where is your mind in as far as this is
concerned? Why is Taiwan so too precious
a
I guess pun intended a chip to be
bargained away here?
>> Yeah, David I think Anne Marie really
you know framed that very well. Taiwan
is integral to US policy in the
Indo-Pacific and I and as I argue in my
column simply too precious to become
trade bait in any sort of eventual deal
between the US and China. And and why
what is the reason for that? Well, look
at where it sits geographically. It is a
key node in the security architecture in
Asia. It is part of the first island
chain. It helps to restrain
geographically China's reach and expanse
of the military. But more importantly
than that arguably is the fact that in
any competition in terms of future
industries like artificial artificial
intelligence, Taiwan is home to 90% of
the world's advanced semiconductors.
That means getting access to that and
maintaining the ability to access that
in a free and fair way is crucial for
American businesses especially in this
race in artificial intelligence in the
future with China. Now, none of this
will be lost on Xi Jinping. Taiwan as
Anne Marie was saying is that key
sensitive red line for the Chinese. It's
become part of the legacy for Xi himself
when he's talked about unification with
the island either through peaceful means
or by force and it has become very much
part of the background discussions in
the lead-up to the two-day meeting
between Xi Jinping and Donald Trump. My
advice to President Trump is to keep
Taiwan off the table. It is far too
important to trade away as bait in these
discussions.
>> Yep, and you're looking at those live
pictures of the Great Hall of People
here right now where some of the US
delegation there. I see the Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant there, the trade
representative Jameson Greer,
and Pete Hoekstra, the Defense
Secretary,
all there. Stephen Miller as well in the
front row ready to greet, of course,
President Trump. The back, the second
row is where all the CEOs are seated. I
see Steve Schwarzman, Tim Cook coming
from Cupertino. Also from the likes of
>> there.
>> Oh, yeah, you see Jane Fraser. Where is
Jensen Huang? I'm trying to look here,
Dave.
>> I'm looking for a black leather jacket.
>> from Goldman Sachs.
Certainly, you're seeing the delegation
is there ready on that red carpet to
greet.
>> We are Oh, there's Jensen Huang.
>> you go. We see him. He's actually the
first in line there, actually. We missed
him during that pan. But, there you go.
Just goes to show the scale of which the
US has brought this delegation to
Beijing, the first overseas trip for
President Trump since this Iran war
began. And you see where the priorities
lie just given where the business side
of things is, right? It's Jensen Huang
in the in the very top of the front of
the line there, Elon Musk behind Tim
Cook. I think the fact that Jensen Huang
is standing there in the in the front
certainly is is quite telling. Given
that he was a last-minute addition to
this trip, and I think, you know, in DC,
there was a lot of talk leading up to
this meeting that perhaps it was a good
thing that Jensen Huang was not invited.
And then now we have this, according to
the spokesperson said, you know, it just
worked out in Jensen Huang's schedule to
be picked up in Alaska during that stop.
So, certainly uh it's going to be a
really interesting what's going to be on
the agenda. Of course, we're just
moments away from this welcome ceremony
here. And then we're going to have that
bilateral summit uh just about the
bottom of the 10:00 hour local time in
Beijing. And yes, Dave, it's the optics
are going to be very, very, very
important here.
>> Especially when you have this lineup,
right? Of of of of business leaders uh
coming to town. And I think you can't
help but wonder uh let me just uh
crowbar in
uh that you two hit with or without you,
right? That's the chip analogy I can
think of right now and as far as China
being able
uh to go on its own. But certainly any
help as far as the cutting-edge chips
will help. So, with or without you, uh
that's a really good way of thinking
about in my opinion, of course, this
conversation. Uh in fact, just I would
imagine just a few steps a few a few
meters from where this live picture is
taking place of of US officials and
business leaders and Elon Musk uh as you
can see there on your screens.
Uh Anne Marie Hoardern is still with us,
of course. Uh Bloomberg Surveillance our
co-anchor, she's there at the Great Hall
of the People. Anne Marie, as we look at
this lineup this business delegation,
one can't help but think of the I guess
the truckload of deals that uh
potentially we could see by the end of
this trip. Just help us understand the
business implications here for both
sides.
>> Massive business implications. About $20
trillion standing on the steps of the
Great Hall of the People right now, just
a stone's throw of where I am here. Of
course, you have the president's
cabinet, the Treasury Secretary who last
night was in Seoul finalizing a lot of
what potentially we're going to see take
place here today with He Lifeng, his
counterpart when it comes to uh the
trade agreements. And then of course,
all the business executives. You have
Citigroup's Jane Fraser, Goldman Sachs,
David Solomon, Lloyd Blankfein, the
former Goldman Sachs CEO uh
was joining the president in 2017. These
are individuals who want to get access
to China's uh capital markets. And then,
of course, Elon Musk and Jensen Huang,
individuals that flew with the president
on Air Force One here to Beijing. When
it comes to Jensen Huang, he was this
last-minute add in Alaska during a
refueling stop, and lots of speculations
and questions whether or not chips will
once again be back on the negotiating
table.
>> Steve, chime in here. I mean,
the delegation is is That's quite a
That's a lineup here of of CEOs. Um tell
us what what the optics look like to
you, and what what does it tell you
about, you know, there's all this talk
about maybe China might start uh I'm
going to interrupt myself. There you go.
Chinese President Xi Jinping going down
the steps of the Great Hall of the
People now ready to greet with the US
President Donald Trump, who's expected
to arrive just moments away. Uh
interestingly enough, it seems, you
know, it's going to be so interesting to
see how these two I mean, there's going
to be a handshake, I'm guessing. But I
remember when I was at APEC la- late
last year uh in in South Korea, the tone
of which these two did strike was one of
really friendship, right? He's a good
friend of mine.
Uh they were talking about the phone
calls that they had made over the years.
Uh so, I think it's going to be really
interesting to see the language of which
these two men are going to portray here,
given so much has happened in the last 6
months uh since APEC, right? When you
talk about the Supreme Court ruling, uh
which has, of course, lowered and
reduced some of those effective tariffs
uh to China. You talk about this Iran
war. The dynamics have changed
dramatically, Dave.
>> Ab- Absolutely. I think
that that really brings to mind the the
most recent narrative that's come up
that China is
is is coming at this because of external
factors from a largely stronger position
of strength in terms of leverage. But
that's also not to say that the US side
does not have uh any specific leverage
in as far as conversations go. As we
look at the Great Hall of the People, we
are just looking at his motorcade, of
course, and we imagine that any moment
now we are expecting the US President
Donald Trump to make his way into the
Great Hall of the People. We just showed
you just now, of course, the Chinese
President make his way down those steps
at the Great Hall of the People. We are
watching this motorcade very, very
closely for any signs and it looks like
this is the US President, of course.
It's worth pointing out that the last US
President to visit mainland China was
Donald Trump, of course, in his first
term a little over 9 years ago, if I'm
not mistaken, if memory serves me
correctly. But this is going to be
historic and this potentially, if all
goes very smoothly, this potentially
could be the first of multiple times
that these two will be meeting meeting
this year. We are getting a glimpse of
the US President Donald Trump as he
makes his way, of course, into
the bottom of the steps where
delegations from both sides are waiting.
You have this entire delegation from the
US side we just showed you this entire
Chinese delegation and the other side as
well. So we are just waiting for him to
step out and of course the Chinese
President, in case you missed our
coverage a few minutes back, did just
make his way down those steps and I
believe he is waiting. There he is in
the blue suit. President Xi Jinping is
waiting
for Donald Trump, of course, to step out
of of of of the vehicle and of course
then we can begin, of course, this this
very important
>> world's most consequential bilateral
meeting.
>> Yes, it which was already delayed
because of this Iran war. So it is much
anticipated as we've been talking about
for weeks and months now. And there you
go, you hear the music here and the
procession as we await for President
Trump to come out of his car. There he
is.
There.
Walking towards Xi Jinping.
It's 36 hours. That's really a that long
not that long of time for the president
to step down here in Beijing. And there
you go.
Another handshake there.
Uh hopefully we'll hear a little bit
more about that before they enter into
these talks about uh usually they do
have a little bit of a sort of
introduction here. They do speak to the
press a little bit here ahead uh of this
bilateral. So certainly uh there you go.
The two men.
This is quite historic, Dave.
>> It it it it really is. Um there are very
few
and this is far and few between that we
do see of course both of them and as far
as us being able to see
uh them walk side to side like this. Uh
I think I I'm just racking my memory the
last time we actually saw them walk
across the lawn together. But yes, uh
it's worth pointing out of course that
Donald Trump was last in in mainland
China as president of course back I
believe uh during in his first term. He
is now currently of course there is Wang
Yi of course and he is just meeting of
course the rest of the Chinese
delegation. They are just waiting uh
well the Chinese group uh and of course
the US delegation is uh just a few steps
away from where we are as well. Just to
give you a sense of what is in store
today. So if all goes to plan on
schedule uh they will both make their
way inside the Great Hall of the People
for that bilateral meeting uh followed
of course uh by the state banquet which
is also being held at at the same venue
uh later tonight and a in a couple of
minutes you'll see of course that US
delegation uh and the US president is
ushering of course the Chinese president
to meet of course um his side uh of the
congregation, right?
>> Yeah, and it's interesting to note,
right? These two men have have met at
least six times over the past decade.
Those meetings though have mostly had
held during sort of the sidelines of you
know APEC or any sort of multilateral
summits.
Um
you know, so it is a little bit more I
guess you would say meaningful but the
fact that President Trump has flown all
the way from the US to the Chinese
capital to meet for the first time uh in
nearly a decade. So, the pageantry
certainly is showing here in full force.
But, of course, what lies underneath
that is, of course, the deeper fault
lines that we do see.
Let's not remember what happened. Let's
not forget, I should say, what happened
last year, right? When you It was
probably the worst that we've seen
between this US-China relationship
during Liberation Day, and we saw
tariffs a north of 100% at one point. We
have come back, you know, down
substantially
>> substantially on that front. On that
front here. Whether we get any more sort
of breakthroughs on the tariff
discussions, that certainly is one thing
that we're looking out for. We do know
the US has talked about bringing out
reciprocal tariffs once again, once that
Section 301 investigation concludes this
summer. Whether the US is willing to do
that at risk of China retaliating is is
certainly one thing, but I think a lot
of that decision depends on what happens
in in the next 36 hours.
>> There is very little indication that
this should not go smoothly, of course.
If you're familiar with how the Chinese
side tends to work things out, of
course, the details are very are very
important, and they are able, of course,
to iron out many of these things ahead
of these big these big meetings, of
course.
And yes, to the point that Ivana was
just making there, how far we've
actually come. It was literally this
time last year, a few weeks after
Liberation Day, when tariffs on both
sides went up substantially over the
course of days and weeks. But, here we
are, 12 months on from that moment in
time. And you have the two presidents,
of course, meeting here in Beijing to
talk us through this.
Yes, just to give you a sense of what
else is coming up in store. And right
now, of course, this military band is
performing
for both sides. Just listening in, as
well.
Is that the national anthem? It's very
very
>> It's It's the US national
>> Okay, there we go. Okay, I'm just trying
to hear above myself right now.
And shortly after that, I believe, of
course, we will be also be getting the
Gugo, which is the national anthem, of
course,
of of China. But, yes, I mean,
today is pregnant with possibility in as
far as the geopolitical conversation is
concerned, and this is really just
just a sight that you're not normally
used to seeing. Uh yeah.
>> Hearing the Star-Spangled Banner being
played in Beijing uh certainly is
something that you don't see normally in
China. So, certainly uh
it is its performance, this welcome
ceremony, is very much underway here.
We'll be doing this for another few more
minutes before the two uh enter into the
Great Hall of the People of for that
official bilateral summit. So, um you
know, certainly you're seeing the red
carpet being pulled out here. I want to
bring in Steven Engel, who who is just,
you know, not too far away at the
Forbidden City here right now. And
Steven, watching all these pictures, of
course, unfold, your your initial
impressions so far.
>> Well, it's a it's sure, the pomp and
ceremony right now on the steps of the
Great Hall of the People, and just
meeting uh Donald Trump
going from uh the Chinese uh leadership,
if you will. I saw Wang Yi, I saw He
Lifeng, and then walking uh Xi Jinping
over to visit with the US cabinet.
Essentially, the
the who's who of the Trump
administration cabinet was there. Led at
the top front of that was Ambassador
David Perdue, but you also had Marco
Rubio, Pete Hegseth. Pete Hegseth is the
first US defense chief to visit China
since 2018. That's when James Mattis
actually was there and met with Xi
Jinping, but Marco Rubio, the
the
state secretary of state, he's been when
he was a senator, he was twice
sanctioned uh by the Chinese uh for his
uh criticism of China's efforts in
Xinjiang and Hong Kong. But, he is he
shook the Xi Jinping's hand there and
was greeted with a smile. Uh the rest of
the cabinet was there. Uh you know, and
also Stephen Miller and Jamison Greer,
the US trade representative. So, uh
I think this is
a high honor obviously for the US
president, the first time
the US president has been given a state
visit here state gathering since 2017.
When it was also Trump.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean,
how how much the world has changed since
that time and how much it hasn't also
changed since that point in time and I
think it's very important to just put
everything into context. This is the
world's most important geopolitical
relationship
and one of the commentary that's come
through
in recent days if this goes very very
smoothly in a couple years time if we
don't remember what happened during this
meeting, that's probably a good thing
in many many ways that you know, both
sides learn
to coexist with each other. It's also
worth pointing out that from a business
perspective and as far as us talking
about how each side is looking to reduce
its reliance on the other.
You know, on the US side of things Anne
Marie, our colleague of course, our
Bloomberg Surveillance co-anchor who's
there, you know, a few steps from where
these two presidents are just gave us a
very good reminder of how tied at the
hip these two are. 20 trillion in market
cap is the representation of these US
CEOs who are standing by for you there
at the Great Hall of the People.
>> Yeah, interesting to note too Dave that
you know, Marco Rubio actually did make
his way to to Beijing despite being
sanctioned by Beijing. I think there's
been some reports about just the the the
sort of logistics and and things that
they had to do to really get him there.
So, it seems like there was a tremendous
effort off of the US and China side of
things to have
a full delegation there to meet and have
these discussions. So, they are bringing
as as Steve mentioned here
the whole team on board here to Beijing
and there you go the cheering from of
course the Chinese youth here this
morning as the two men enter into to
Hall of the People. And yes, there
certainly is a lot of optimism, I guess
you could say on the ground there right
now. Whether we do get sort of
breakthroughs is is another question,
right? There are some constraints, there
are going to be limitations on what can
actually come about here, according to
what, you know, the analysts and and
China experts and and and DC experts
tell us here, because of the dynamics of
where these two leaders stand right now
when it comes to this Iran war. Um you
know, even when it comes to the China
side of things, they have not really
done anything substantial in terms of
trying to reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
Beijing has largely stood on the
sidelines of this Iran war. Uh and will
that overshadow the discussions around
trade, tech, and Taiwan? Uh certainly it
is going to be the elephant in the room,
um but President Trump has reiterated
time and time again that he will not let
Iran overshadow these talks, that there
is plenty more on this agenda to to go
through here in the next 2 days or so.
>> Yes, so in a couple of minutes, if all
goes to schedule, just give you a sense,
about 12 minutes or so back, the US
President did arrive of course at the
Great Hall of the People as they make
their way through uh literally this
parade and the pomp and circumstance and
ceremony of course that uh is is very
indicative and characteristic really of
uh of these official visits. Uh at
10:25, that's in about 13 minutes from
now, both are stepping in for this
expanded bilateral meeting inside the
Great Hall uh of the People. Uh maybe
just to get a sense of what to expect,
uh where we perhaps should be tempering
our expectations and where we should
where we should be perhaps putting some
uh enthusiasm. Uh let's bring in our uh
one of our first guests this hour, Ken
Gibbs, executive uh in residence at the
University of San Francisco Center for
Asia-Pacific Studies. He's also a former
president of AmCham Shanghai, so he's
fairly familiar uh with ongoings in this
part of the world. Uh
Mr. Gibbs, thank you so much for for
joining us and certainly what an
opportune time to be speaking with you
given this.
I just want to get a sense of People
talk about how the US US side
particularly
does want China to open up its markets
even further. I mean, you are familiar
with how business is done and
being the former president of AmCham
Shanghai.
Uh give us some context there. What
exactly do you think China should be
more open, welcoming to open, and what
is already open?
>> Sure. Well, it's great to be with you.
Great to be with all of you, and it's
I enjoyed listening to your to your
run-up there. And just a couple of quick
comments about
your your reporting there on the the
Marco Rubio situation. That's really
fascinating to see. I can't remember any
situation where, you know, a sitting
Secretary of State is actually
sanctioned by by a country like this and
and still attends. I would point out
that it's it's kind of interesting.
China didn't actually need to do that.
The The if you remember that under under
the previous
previous president Biden, um
the chief executive of Hong Kong, John
John Lee, was was sanctioned by the
United States, and and the and President
Biden did not
give him an exception to visit the
United States during APEC. And so, it
would have been quite natural to
reciprocate there. Um but but it's good
that the Secretary of State is able to
make the trip. But yeah, this is an
extremely important summit, no question
about it. I mean, it's no It's not the
summit that that President Trump was
looking for, obviously, and I think you
you covered that that the how much the
dynamics have changed in this situation
and in the relationship. Also, the it's
fascinating to see the the lineup of of
the CEOs. I mean,
definitely the president has brought the
A team there. I mean, that's an all-star
lineup. And it's very impressive. I
think you guys did the math there on $30
worth of market cap. I won't challenge
your math on that. It's it's very
impressive.
But you look at it the other way and
it's actually a lineup of American
companies that very much need the China
market. And in fact, you you just you
saw, you know, Elon Musk there front and
center, you know, he's got a lot of
exposure to to the China market both
from a sales and revenue perspective and
production. And he has actually seen his
market share when the when Tesla came
into the market, they made a big splash
and um and uh they were very much
catering to the early adopters and and
are credited
uh in my view to with with with kind of
validating the market there for EVs. And
it they brought in a very sexy, cool car
into the market and and the Chinese
consumers uh snapped it up. Um and uh
but then following that this is when you
saw the the the market for EVs really
take off. But Tesla had they enjoyed
maybe an 8, 10% maybe more market share
in that market and it has plummeted.
It's it's they've lost a lot of share to
to to BYD. They're down to maybe 3%, 3,
4% I think in the China market and
globally they've they've lost a lot of
market share to BYD.
And so
uh so Elon Musk is showing up in in
China. He really needs that market. I
think he's going to be looking for ways
to kind of turn that around. Um but
second, he's he's also and Apple is in
the same situation. They're very much
dependent on on China for production. Uh
so a lot of that production that um that
Tesla has there in the Shanghai
facility, a lot of that supports uh
overseas markets outside of China. So
they very much need that facility to to
keep running smoothly. And so when I see
that that lineup, that's probably the
first thing I think of when is is how
much uh these American companies really
need the need need a a good relationship
with with China.
>> Hey Kerr, this is Steve Engle standing
outside the Forbidden City. Thanks for
joining us. Hey, I want to sort of
you know
mention your book The Fragile Dragon.
And that's you know about geopolitically
and on the commercial front.
You know,
what do you think can be gained
geopolitically that will benefit the
business community on national security
front. They're talking about a board of
trade, a board of investment. And there
are we've also hearing reports about
maybe identifying at least $30 billion
of products by both sides that would
have reduced tariffs as long as they
don't fall under national security
concerns. How concerned are you when you
talk to the business community that
trade and investment has been hindered
dramatically because of the rise of the
concern of national security?
>> Yeah, thanks for mentioning my book,
Steve. I really appreciate it. This this
book just came out
about about about a month ago and and
yeah, it's very much the the topic of
the book is is talking about the
relationship itself, the US and China.
And and the idea that national security
has has has really I don't want to say
eclipsed the the commercial
relationship, but it has really shifted
the dynamic and has narrowed the lane in
which these
companies are able to operate. And so
American companies really see the lane
kind of closing in on basically they we
used to to to have to think about, you
know, what what the Chinese side would
allow us to do, but now it's navigating
that narrow quarter between what China
will allow and what the United States
will allow. And and I mean one case in
point, you know, again Jensen Huang
having joined this this the trip I think
the the chip the uh the H200 chips is a
case in point. You know, you you you
need you literally need both countries
to approve, right? At this point, my
understanding of the current situation
is that the White House has approved uh
the sale of the H200, but uh but Beijing
is now dragging their feet in terms of
they're going to control whether, you
know, and how much that that chip can
come in because, again, the hardliners
in in in in China um
would would like to see them develop
their own chips. And and and again, as
you guys mentioned earlier, they reduce
that dependency on the United States.
So, so the corridor is is is is really
narrowing, and and that's a problem for
for American companies.
>> Um Kurt, it's it's interesting, too. You
mentioned about how some of these big
tech companies in the US still need
China as a market.
Do do Chinese businesses you think still
need the US the same way? I mean, you
you talk about the the self-sufficiency
that we've seen among
uh you know, the Chinese about how they
they can do it alone with whether it's
legacy and they can have cheaper models
of AI and the like. Uh and we have seen
China diversify away from the US in
terms of the trade uh discussions as
well. They're they're still their
exports are still strong and resilient
outside of the US. Do you think that
narrative has changed dramatically now
of of you know, China can go at at it
without the US?
>> Yeah, do does do the Chinese companies
need the US? No. Do they want the US?
Absolutely. And uh uh the the the sector
that um where that's most obvious is
probably in pharmaceuticals when you see
drug development. Um drug development in
um in China, which is seeing a lot of
innovation, a lot of really interesting
ther- therapeutics are coming out of
China, but um the Chinese there's
interesting dynamics going on within the
Chinese market in terms of what they
call volume-based pricing and and and
other controls that have have really
limited the amount of revenue and profit
that that these companies can get within
within the pharma business within China.
So, I was just in China a few a few
months ago and I was visiting a few
startup companies out there in in
Jangjang with a outside of just outside
of Shanghai and and I was expecting a
lot of the startups to really be
ignoring the the US market because of
all the tension and the tariffs and all
of these kinds of things, but no. No,
they were they're very much um
thinking about the US market for their
products because the the US market is
still is still the most attractive
market. It's the most profitable for
those types of businesses. What's going
to be interesting is uh going back to
the EV space is is going to be
interesting when the conversation turns
to investment. And again, I I I believe
that that the Chinese companies,
especially um EVs, they're looking for
any way to to get into the US market the
US market and the European market
because again, these are the largest
other than China itself. You know, these
are the largest and most profitable
markets for for automobiles. And um I
think that the EVs Chinese EVs would
would would very much like to get into
that market. Now, let's if that that
space is fraught with with issues. And
and this gets into the US domestic
politics and the attitudes towards this
these electric vehicles, especially the
Tesla, you know, it basically just
huge data collection vehicles. And and
so you're going to have uh you're going
to have that issue for sure.
>> Yeah, Kurt, I I want to bring in our our
colleague Emry Hordern and she is live
at the Great Hall of the People. Um
Emry, you're you're watching all this
unfold this this you know, exchange of
hands, this pomp and circumstance. Tell
us a little bit more about, you know,
what what's standing out to you now this
morning?
>> Certainly an extraordinary display of
pomp and circumstances. President Xi
Jinping greeted President Trump here
outside the Great Hall of the People.
There was a military band as well as a
number of school children here carrying
American and Chinese flags. That got a
huge smile from President Trump and an
applause as well. And then as Jinping
led President Trump up the steps past of
course his cabinet, the likes of
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessette, Marco
Rubio, I know Stephen Angle talked about
earlier was twice sanctioned by the
Chinese Communist Party when he was a
senator and then of course all the host
of executives that are here from Wall
Street and the tech sector alongside the
president. You could see Xi Jinping was
pointing out different parts of the
structures around where the president
was standing, pointing across to
Tiananmen Square and then of course as
well where the Forbidden City is. They
did seem to be in good spirits. It was a
very warm greeting. You don't hear
you know the US national anthem every
day in this square outside the Great
Hall of the People. So definitely a warm
welcome. Obviously the real negotiation
is going to begin now. They will have a
bilateral meeting today. They will also
continue that conversation tomorrow. We
are going to be keenly focused on any
purchasing agreements that come from
that, what happens in terms of the tech
sector, do they establish some sort of
channel on how AI should work? And then
really the thorny tense issues of the
Iran war and for China is going to be of
course what the president says or
doesn't say when it comes to Taiwan.
>> Yeah, Annmarie, before we we we we let
you go but I guess given perhaps some
logistics
items to be considered there of course
where you are on the ground. I just want
to ask you just one final question of
course we you know this is a this is an
election year in the US in midterms and
in I guess in some ways what Donald
Trump brings home could indirectly help
him win and his party win you know win
the win the midterms.
How big of a potential
factor could you know, the next 48 hours
be in as far as you know, the outcome in
November is concerned.
>> It's a great point David. Domestic
politics will weigh heavy on the
president while he's here. We just had
hot inflation numbers yesterday. The
cost of energy has been an issue for
many Americans. You continuously see
that in surveys and polls especially the
price of energy of course gasoline is
north of $4 a gallon across the United
States. This has all been pushed up by
the conflict when it comes to Iran. So I
think for the president he wants some
sort of major wins to come back to the
United States with. So maybe that's
going to be jets. Maybe that's going to
be soybeans for the heartland of the
farmland of America or maybe it's
potentially Xi Jinping and China being
able to put their thumb on the scale
when it comes to pressure on the Iranian
regime. Of course the Iranian regime has
funding and revenue solely because of
China. China buys 90% the lion's share
of Iranian oil. Potentially could Xi
Jinping insert himself in a more
assertive way in terms of that conflict
whether it's the Strait of Hormuz or
maybe even putting more barrels on the
market.
>> Embry, great stuff. Embry Horton there
joining us outside the Great Hall of the
People as you see inside those live
pictures are inside the Great Hall of
the People right now where you have seen
both the US and Chinese delegation now
seated on the table here. So certainly
those discussions have begun. Looks like
we didn't hear too much in terms of you
know, initial remarks from both sides
which we did see during the South Korea
talks at APEC but it seems like they're
just ready to go and kick off here but
you're hearing it right now. We'll see
if we get any more translation from
President Xi here if there is an English
translation on this feed. There's going
to be you know, obviously I think the
positive tones that we're seeing right
now that's going to be you know, emulate
for the for the next you know, few
minutes or so. I think once we get into
the deep sort of issues, I'm guessing
they're going to be closing the door and
and not letting reporters in. So, right
now,
uh we don't have audio yet, but there
you go. You see President Xi there with
his opening remarks ahead of these
talks.
>> Yeah, if you're just joining us right
now, this this bilateral meeting,
expanded one,
just started and as you can see, the
Chinese president has just begun of
course his welcome remarks. I believe we
now have live translation. Let's listen
in, guys.
>> Currently, transformation not seen in a
century is accelerating across the globe
and the international situation is fluid
and turbulent. The world has come to a
new crossroads.
Can China and the United States overcome
the Thucydides trap
and create a new paradigm of major
country relations?
Can we meet global challenges together
and provide more stability for the
world?
Can we, in the interest of the
well-being of our two peoples and the
future of humanity, build a brighter
future together for our bilateral
relations?
These are the questions vital to
history, to the world, and to the
people.
They are the questions
of our times that you and I need to
answer as leaders of major countries.
This year is the 250th anniversary of
American independence.
Congratulations to you and to the
American people.
I always believe
that our two countries have more common
interests than differences.
Success in one is an opportunity for the
other.
And a stable bilateral relationship is
good for the world.
China and the United States both stand
to gain from cooperation and lose from
confrontation. We should be partners,
not rivals. We should help each other
succeed and prosper together and find
the right way for major countries to get
along well with each other in the new
era.
Mr. President, I look forward to our
discussions on major issues important to
our two countries and the world.
And working together with you
to set the course for and steer the
giant ship of China-US relations
so as to make 2026
a historic landmark year that opens up a
new chapter in China-US relations.
I will pause here
and hand over to you, Mr. President.
Thank you.
>> Well, President Xi, I want to thank you
very much. First of all,
uh that was
an honor
like few have ever seen before.
And I think I was
particularly impressed by those
children. They were happy.
They were beautiful.
The military is obvious. It couldn't be
better, but those children were amazing
and they represent so much and I know I
know they represent so much to you.
You and I have known each other now for
a long time. In fact, the longest
relationship of our two countries that
any president and president
has had and uh that's to me an honor.
We've had a fantastic relationship.
We've gotten along. When there were
difficulties, we worked it out.
I would call you and you would call me
and whenever we had a problem, people
don't know. Whenever we had a problem,
we worked it out very quickly.
Uh we're going to have a
fantastic future together.
Such respect for China, the job you've
done.
You're a great leader. I say it to
everybody, you're a great leader.
Sometimes people don't like me saying
it, but I say it anyway because it's
true. I always say the truth.
And I just want to say on behalf of all
of the great delegation that we have, we
have the greatest businessmen, the
biggest, and
I guess the best in the world. We have
amazing people, and they're all with me.
They every single one of them We have
the top
30 in the world. Every single one of
them said yes.
And I didn't want the second or the
third in the company. I wanted only the
top. And they're here today to pay
respects to you and to China.
And they look forward to
trade and doing business, and it's going
to be totally reciprocal on our behalf.
So, I really look very much forward to
our discussion. It's a big discussion.
There are those that say this is maybe
the biggest summit ever.
They can never remember anything like
it. It's like say in the United States.
It's
People aren't talking about anything
else.
But it's an honor to be with you. It's
an honor to be your friend. And the
relationship between China and the USA
is going to be better than ever before.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
>> All right. That was the opening remarks
from both President Xi and President
Trump. It looks like those live pictures
have taken us back outside to the Great
Hall of the People as this bilateral
meeting
begins. What we heard from President Xi
in those opening remarks was that, you
know, it was very in terms of the tone,
very positive. What we heard from from
Xi was talking to steer Chinese US
relations in the right direction. You
heard that really be echoed by Trump as
well, saying that this relationship
between the US and China will will
better than before. And he did say
though he was looking forward President
Trump to talking about the trade issue.
Tell she trade will be totally
reciprocal on our behalf and he was
looking to have a fantastic future
together. That's according to President
Trump telling Xi Jinping and and really
calling him a great leader. So the
optics wise things have started off of
course on a positive tone here and
certainly you know President Trump said
he was looking forward to talking about
some major issues. Let's bring back Kurt
Gibbs, executive in residence at the
University of San Francisco Center for
Asia Pacific Studies. He's also a former
president of AmCham Shanghai. Kurt, it's
great to have you back. Thanks for
standing by by the way. I know in your
previous life you you covered tech and
you covered Taiwan very extensively.
Uh given the fact that the president
says he wants to talk about major
issues, do you think Taiwan is going to
be on the agenda and how worried do you
think Taipei should be about this
summit?
>> Uh Taiwan, yeah, that's that's that's
going to be a a big topic. Let me just
make a quick comment though about what
we just saw which was quite remarkable
to get inside the room and see them with
and President Trump talking about the
relationship the personal relationship
between him and President Xi. I think
it's worth pointing out a couple things.
I mean clearly they do have some kind of
rapport
and it's clearly transactional and to
some degree performative and you know
and one has to wonder you know to how
much strategic depth does that does that
relationship actually have? But I just
want to make a couple of quick points
about Xi Jinping and and and Donald
Trump. I mean one is is
Xi Jinping like all Chinese leaders they
they do not like surprises and and so
President Trump's improvisational style
is is definitely going to make him
uncomfortable Xi and and
and then the second point is the
just in terms of the relationship
between them personally, President Trump
has has been known to tear up deals. And
this is going to have to have an impact
on the level of trust and the level of
of willingness that President Xi is
going to be to to have to to make any
kind of substantive commitment
knowing that the pres the next president
of the United States might actually
tear it up, or even this president might
might
go back on that agreement if if he
change if he changes his mind. So,
that's going to have to affect affect
how Xi Jinping kind of looks at the
relationship. And third, obviously,
Donald Trump has has has done a fair
number of things on the global stage
that
that President Xi that Xi Jinping is not
happy with. I mean, the right now it's
the live issue is is Iran, but you know,
let's not forget about Venezuela, let's
not forget about Cuba, let's then then
of course Ukraine.
Um
But you asked about Taiwan.
My expectations on Taiwan, I mean,
everybody's been talking about it
because again in in that point, right?
President Trump has actually is said
made contradictory statements on on
Taiwan. And and in that context, one
would have to to ask, you know, even if
Xi Jinping were able to get uh President
Trump to to commit to some to to change
the language, change the way he talks
about Taiwan. And we're talking about
about
whether the United States would would
say,
you know, we we don't favor
independence.
You know, what is that really worth
to to to Xi? Because again, it's it's
he may come out with a contradictory
statement the very next day. So, I think
that so so so yes, that that's certainly
going to be discussed. Yes, it's
possible
that that President Trump will will make
a statement on that, but but what's it
worth? And then the the the second point
is, you know, on the arms sales,
I would probably make the same point. I
it will come up in the conversation, I'm
quite sure, and China would like for
those arms arms sales to to be reduced
or or stopped entirely, but on the one
hand, um there's a substantial backlog
anyway on on on those arms. And so,
um Taiwan's not going to be getting
those F-16s anytime soon. It's probably
going to be 10 years or more. So,
um in some sense, if there is a a
commitment on the arms sale, it could
be, you know, the sleeves off the vest.
>> Carr, thank you so much for your
analysis. Thank you so and and really
staying on late uh there, Carr Gibbs,
executive in residence at the University
of San Francisco Center for Asia-Pacific
Studies and author of The Fragile
Dragon, Trade, Trump and China's
Vulnerabilities. Uh joining us now is
Bonnie Glaser, managing director of the
Indo-Pacific Program at the German
Marshall Fund of the United States.
Bonnie, uh it's great to have you. I
know you've been watching
uh all this unfold uh from where you
are. Seems like the two start off with
with with tremendous rapport. What are
your expectations uh and then for the
next 36 hours?
>> Well, I think that the conversations
between the two leaders uh will focus on
uh relatively small number of issues. Uh
President Trump is primarily interested
in trade
uh because of the ongoing conflict in
Iran, that is definitely on the agenda,
and Xi Jinping wants to talk about uh
Taiwan. I don't think there's going to
be a lot of other discussion about
geopolitical issues or other security
issues. Uh with uh prior presidents,
there was more of a focus, I think, on
security issues, but I think Trump
himself is more interested in trade and
ensuring that the United States is
getting a smooth flow of
deliveries of rare earth magnets and
minerals, which are necessary to power
just about everything
that we use and of course not just in
the United States, but all over the
world. And the Chinese weaponized their
dominance in the rare earth and critical
minerals supply chain last year. I think
that was really a
wake-up call for President Trump and his
administration. And since then, there
has been
a desire on the part of the United
States to avoid
provoking China to do that again. So of
course I'm referring to the truce that
was reached when they met previously in
South Korea in Busan. And the two
leaders decided that they would hold off
on implementing these export controls
that they had imposed on each other.
That agreement might be extended at the
summit, but probably later this year
because there's still some tariff issues
that are up in the air
because the Supreme Court has determined
that the original tariffs that were used
not only on China, but on many other
countries were illegal. And the United
States is now doing a section 301
investigation. When that is complete,
there will be new tariffs that will be
imposed on China. We've already heard
from Beijing that they hope that that
doesn't happen, but I think the US is
is committed to keeping those tariffs at
about the same level that they have been
in recent months.
>> Hi Bonnie, Stephen Engle here in in
Beijing. Let me jump in and pick up on
that point. You're making a very
important point because this summit all
36 hours of it is not necessarily the
panacea to all the ills that have crept
up and really bubbled over the edge of
the the pot in the last year with
tariffs being risen as high as 145%
and retaliatory moves by the Chinese.
What what is the message or the
deliverable that needs to come from this
summit so we don't necessarily go back
to
more tariffs and retaliatory strikes,
high walls on export controls that will
signal to the business community, "Oh,
we we can actually rekindle
commercial ties."
>> Well, I do think that the business
communities both in the United States
and China want greater predictability.
And I think that the leaders will
provide that in terms of their
discussions even if they don't extend
the agreement that was reached last
year. It is due to expire this fall and
they will probably commit to extend it
before then. I think both leaders want
to have a degree of stability in this
relationship. Xi Jinping is already
looking to next year preparing for the
the Party Congress where he will likely
get a fourth term in office. He is
concerned about a number of economic
challenges that he faces and he has to
deal with personnel arrangements for
that Party Congress. He needs a modicum
of stability in this relationship and I
think also President Trump wants
stability. He wants to avoid a
confrontation whether that be in the
Taiwan Strait or any place else and
wants to give the buys and time
essentially for the United States to
reduce its dependencies on China and
there is an active de-risking uh set of
efforts that are underway in the United
States. There probably will be the
announcement of what is being referred
to as a board of trade and that will
essentially be a mechanism to talk about
what goods are not sensitive in both
countries that we can export to each
other. Some people say this is
white-listing trade, but they won't be
discussing the more difficult issues of
the Chinese subsidies, for example, for
their
for their companies, for their
champions, or for the uneven playing
field in in China because the US market
is far more open than the Chinese market
is. And that's because the United States
has essentially given up on trying to
change China's economic policies and its
development model. Instead, we are
trying to deal with China as it is,
protect the United States where
necessary, but President Trump is quite
fixated on reducing the bilateral trade
deficit. It has already been reduced to
some extent, but in this board of trade,
I think there will be an emphasis on
trying to export more American goods to
China so that we can narrow this trade
deficit even further.
>> Bonnie, David here.
On, you know, technology and national
security and I I appreciate those two
things can be separate, but they do
overlap, of course, on some points.
And I I I I guess my question is,
do you think the US, Donald Trump and
his team are able to convince the
Chinese that while obviously national
security is in their, you know, they do
have ground, of course, to worry about
that when it comes to technology, but
they're also not trying to stifle
China's techno, you know, technological
ambitions. Do you think that's possible?
>> Well, I think
President Trump and his senior officials
have said some contradictory things
about technology. Certainly, the United
States wants to maintain its lead, for
example, in compute,
in artificial intelligence.
I don't think there is a effort to
contain China's rise. We sometimes hear
the Chinese use that language, but yes,
the United States wants to ensure that
it has a lead in some technologies, but
the Chinese are going to compete. And we
still have chips that have been approved
for sale to China that the Chinese
really haven't purchased very many
because probably they want more advanced
chips. And we know that the CEO of
Nvidia is on this delegation with
President Trump, and maybe there will be
a conversation about the chips that that
Nvidia designs and makes and and perhaps
the Chinese will try to convince
President Trump to give a green light to
sell them. But I think this will be
ongoing
in the US-China relationship. There will
be some things that the Trump
administration will green light. There
will be other things that I think they
will block.
>> It was interesting too in some of those
opening remarks. There was this
reference to the
the Thucydides trap. When when really
classifying this US-China relationship,
Bonnie, I'm just wondering when it comes
to Taiwan,
you say that
China can afford to wait when it comes
to what to do with Taiwan. Why do you
think Beijing continues to play and
should play the long game here?
>> Beijing observes very closely Taiwan's
domestic politics as well as US policy
toward of
And I think that the Chinese see that
time is on their side.
They believe that this new KMT chair,
the leader of the opposition party, the
KMT in Taiwan, who recently visited
Beijing and met with Xi Jinping,
and she echoed many of the things that
Xi Jinping himself says about the the
cross-strait relationship.
She said she opposes Taiwan independence
for example.
That's another example, not that they
are certain that she will come to power,
but I think at the end of the day they
think that there are real limits on what
the current president in Taiwan can do.
The opposition
restrains what he can do because the
ruling party in Taiwan does not have a
majority in their legislature.
And President Trump has to some extent
been cautious in his policies toward
Taiwan. He has,
for example, put on the shelf reportedly
about a $14 billion
arms sales package for Taiwan. And we
know that Xi Jinping has talked about
his concerns about arms sales to Taiwan.
He would like them probably ended or at
least reduced. And that will come up, of
course, in this summit as well. But I
think that the Chinese look at the
developments in Taiwan. They have
patience. They don't see a need to take
Taiwan today
because they actually think that the
trend is in the right direction. If you
look at public opinion polls in Taiwan,
you will see that the youth,
particularly ages 20 to 29, are not as
supportive of Taiwan independence as
they used to be.
They
In the questions they are asked about
their identity, whether they see
themselves as Chinese or Taiwanese or
both. In the past, we saw higher numbers
saying that they saw themselves as
Taiwanese. Now, we see people more
frequently saying they are both Chinese
and Taiwanese. So, there are many things
that are taking place in Taiwan and and
and part of this is because of what I
think we should refer to perhaps some
Chinese soft power. Uh, they're
um, they're apps like the
little red note and very, very popular
in Taiwan, for example.
And maybe their narratives as well. Some
of it may be information manipulation,
but they send a narrative into Taiwan
that the United States is unreliable and
that Taiwan's future would be better if
it were part of China. And I think that
some of this messaging is beginning to
be seen positively in some sectors, some
quarters
in Taiwan. So, I don't think that China
wants to take Taiwan by force. If they
have to, as a last resort, they will do
so, but it's going to be much better for
Xi Jinping if they can take Taiwan
through peaceful means, which includes
coercion, because that's China's
definition of peaceful.
>> Bonnie, thank you so much for joining
us. Bonnie Glaser there, managing
director of the Indo-Pacific program at
the German Marshall Fund of the United
States. And for subscribers, you can
also turn to your terminal for more on
this or T-Live Go is up and running.
Your function for the latest updates
plus commentary and analysis from our
expert editors. We'd also like to thank
our radio audience for joining in for
our special coverage today. This is
Bloomberg.
>> Success in one is an opportunity for the
other.
And a stable bilateral relationship is
good for the world.
China and the United States both stand
to gain from cooperation and lose from
confrontation. We should be partners,
not rivals. We should help each other
succeed and prosper together and find
the right way for major countries to get
along well with each other in the new
era.
>> When there were difficulties, we worked
it out.
I would call you and you would call me
and whenever we had a problem, people
don't know, whenever we had a problem,
we worked it out very quickly.
And we're going to have a
fantastic future together.
>> All right, as you can hear there, those
are the opening remarks from President
Xi and President Trump a moments ago, of
course, as they began these bilateral
talks here.
Uh, the first really meeting we've seen
between the two since, of course, uh, 6
months ago in APEC. And yes, the
personal rapport was certainly showing
this the world's most important bromance
as as our BN uh, team has has said here,
a full on display. I want to bring back
in our chief North Asia correspondent
Stephen Engle, who has been tracking all
this and of course, you know, Steve, you
know, they're they're in closed doors
now. This is where the hard work begins.
>> I was going to make that exact point.
That was before the cameras. Then they
kicked the cameras out of the Great Hall
of the People, the doors closed. That's
where they're going to get into the
nitty-gritty, obviously, and then
hopefully we'll get readouts for both
sides fairly quickly. Uh, but this is
just the first meeting uh, of several
that they're going to have. They're
going to have a chance to walk through
the the grounds of the Temple of Heaven.
Perhaps that's the time uh, that Donald
Trump will have his so-called long talk
with Xi Jinping about the war in Iran.
Or maybe not. Maybe they'll find this
time behind closed doors to to get to
push his points on Iran and Beijing
support of Tehran and trying to get a
little bit more influence from Beijing
to
cajole, if you will, Iran to abide by
some of the terms that the United States
has imposed to end the war and to
unblock the Strait of Hormuz. But again,
there was all pleasantries. As we just
heard, the two gentlemen
it was Xi Jinping who said we I always
believe that we the United States and
China have more in common than
differences. As you just heard, we are
partners, not rivals. This relationship
is a giant ship to steer that they are
stewards to steer the relationship in
the right direction. So, pleasantries,
now it's the hard talk happening behind
closed doors.
>> Well, so far so good. Steve, thank you
so much. Steven Engle there just outside
of course the the Forbidden City just
very
short drive away of course from where
the meeting is currently taking place at
the Great Hall of the People also in
Beijing. While that's taking place,
markets actually are playing this I
think very very clearly for one in the
form of a stronger Chinese currency and
I think we're up 11 straight days now on
the offshore rate which actually means
we're now looking at the longest win
streak on CNH going back to 2017.
Coincidentally, the last time I believe
they met, right, in in in China.
Look look how that worked out. The the
tech space also very much in focus
today.
>> Yeah, you know, you take a look at what
it's it's quieter than yesterday I have
to say because maybe everyone's very
fixated on what's going on in Beijing.
But you take a look at what we've been
seeing that the big movers have been of
course this morning is Alibaba over
Tencent in some ways, right? Because the
outlook and guidance from the CEO when
it comes to AI services revenue could
triple by the end of this year. I think
that was enough to show that this
company is really prioritizing AI growth
over profits and investors are actually
liking that news and going with it.
We're up 5 and 1/2% for Baba. Tencent's
up some one. Samsung, the chips still
doing pretty well here today.
>> A look at the CSI 300. That's it from us
here today our special coverage. We will
see you all tomorrow. Thank you for
joining us today.